---
layout: post
title:      "=> vs -> in PHP"
date:       2018-12-22 12:49:34 +0000
permalink:  vs_-_in_php
---


I've been learning PHP and the MVC framework Laravel. As I previously posted, Laravel clearly has some roots in Ruby on Rails. I'm sure all these types of web frameworks have a lot of similarities, but it just seems like Laravel was created by a frustrated Rails develeoper who wanted to "do it right". I really like what I've seen so far!
There's one thing in PHP in general that I keep running into, however. PHP uses two different arrow shapes in it's syntax, and it's causing me typo after typo. PHP has a bit of a bad wrap for being ugly and spaghetti, and while I generally don't see it, these arrows make it tougher to type code. I'm sure I'll get better as with practice, but here's what's bugging me about it right now.
So the equals arrow ```=>``` in PHP works like the colon in a JSON object...it assigns a value to a key. If I remember correctly Ruby works the same way, though they've added a syntax similar to how JavaScript works. The single arrow ```->``` is more like the dot notation for calling methods and properties in JS. Running ```$user->add('name');``` in PHP is roughly the same as ```user.add('name)``` in JavaScript.
I understand the syntax, as its not really that complicated, but for me at the moment its annoying to type it all out. I'm sure its always like that when switching/learning a new language but at the time I wish there was an easier way. I should probably look into VS Code plugins. I find that the extra keystrokes involved, especially the ones reqire a 'shift' can slow me down signifigantly. 
